Sam Harris and I have our differences. I
say potato, he says potato. I say
tomato, he says, "Dr. I hate religion.
Make it go away. Everyone needs to agree
with me." Dur Sky
Daddy. Since Sam and I disagree on many
important issues. I find it interesting
when we're in total agreement on
something. Sam was recently on the
Unholy Podcast. This isn't me calling
someone's podcast unholy. It's actually
the name of the podcast. And Yanite
Levy, one of the hosts, asked this
question. It's a little bit of a
personal question, but I mean, you are
an atheist and Jewish. Can you tell us
how that balance changed or shifted for
you after October 7th? In case you
didn't know that Sam is Jewish, I just
looked it up for you. His mother is
Jewish but not religious and it wasn't
very relevant when he was growing up.
But how did his perspective change after
the attack in 2023? Well, I I think it
would have been true to say
um before October 7th that I was I mean
I'm still an atheist. I'm still a
secularist. I'm still um I still think
that we're paying an intolerable price
for for the religious balkcanization of
our world. So, I'm I'm not a fan of of
of sectarianism in any form. Not a fan
of sectarianism in any form. Have you
met these new atheists,
Sam? Our group smart, everyone else
dumb. Our group rational, everyone else
crazy. Our group loves science, everyone
else just love
faith. You guys are the most sectarian
of all sectarians, but also the most
blind to it.
I'll let you slide for now though since
we want to hear you answer the question.
Before October 7th, you could have said
that I was not a Zionist, right? Or I I
certainly would would be willing to to
call into question the legitimacy of
organizing a state around a a a religion
or a or a a religiously identified
ethnicity, right? You know, Judaism in
this case. His pre-occtober 7th concern
makes perfect sense in light of his
worldview. Religion is a problem that
humanity needs to eradicate. So is it a
good idea to build a country around a
religious identity even in part? Of
course not. Hence he wouldn't have
considered himself a Zionist.
I mean I think I once I released a
podcast some years ago titled, you know,
why don't I criticize Israel? 10 years
ago. Yeah. And there I gave a you know a
fairly equivocal and frustrating defense
of Israel. But I mean I was troubled by
you know as someone who is who believes
that we are paying this intolerable
price for for
sectarianism. I was troubled by the the
seeming contradiction in defending the
Jewish state. And and for me it just
nets out to the only real defense is the
ambient level of genocidal intolerance
that's directed at Jews. So as someone
who was opposed to religion, he had a
problem with the idea of a state that
included some degree of a religious
identity. And yet because he was aware
of the history of anti-semitism, he
wasn't strongly opposed to the idea of
Israel being an exception. But there was
a problem for this reluctant
rationalization. Hadn't most of the
world moved past the age of
anti-semitism? Was it really such a huge
problem like it was in the first half of
the 20th century? And yet before October
7th, even there I was I felt like I was
I was paying lip service to the legacy
of the Holocaust uh without really
having my my heart was really not quite
in it because I it was it still seemed
kind of hypothetical to me. I mean
because in in my life anti-semitism has
not seemed like a real variable at all.
uh and apart from the Islamist version
of it, it it seemed to have been, you
know, more or less fully defanged, you
know, the world over. So, anti-semitism
was still a problem in the Muslim world,
but in most places, how many people
really had a problem with Jews? Was
there still so much anti-semitism going
around that even atheists needed to
defend the idea of a Jewish state? That
was his thinking before October 7th,
2023. What's his position now? But given
October 7th and given the response to it
in the West, both on the left and on the
right politically, yeah, I'm I'm really,
you know, just kind of an unapologetic
Zionist at this point. I just like who
who can be counted upon to defend the
Jews, but the Jews. Uh I think that's a
question that that for
which there's you have to heir on the
side of the the most cynical and
depressing answer which is you know only
the Jews can can at the end of the day
be counted upon to defend themselves.
Post October 7th Sam considers himself
an unapologetic Zionist. He's realized
that hating Jews isn't just a problem in
the Muslim world. It's a problem in lots
of places. And if people on both the
left and the right can almost instantly
start blaming Jews for everything that
goes wrong, if students at Ivy League
universities can be programmed to
support terrorist groups that vow to
annihilate Jews, who can be trusted
long-term to defend Jews? Jews, that's
who. The only people who can really be
counted on to continue defending Jews
are Jews.
What conclusion did Sam draw from this?
And so, and I think they should have the
right to do that and having a Jewish
state seems like u the at certainly at
the moment the only rational uh you know
backs stop to that project. Sam says
Jews need a state where they can defend
themselves and that makes Sam Harris a
Zionist. And on this issue, Sam and I
are in total agreement. There are
different kinds of Zionism. There are
religious versions, Jewish Zionism and
Christian Zionism, and there are secular
versions. When I talk about Israel's
right to continue existing and to defend
itself, I'm usually thinking exactly
what Sam just said. And I would probably
think the same thing if other groups
were in the same position. If you asked
me right now, do Eskimos need their own
state? I would say no. They're fine in
Alaska and Canada and Russia and
Greenland. Why would they need a
state? But suppose things change.
Suppose all of a sudden that one of the
world's largest religions decides
Eskimos should be annihilated and that
people start blaming Eskimos for
everything that sucks about their lives
and that college students start praising
any group that vows to exterminate
Eskimos.
Suppose further that some random empire
goes to war against various nations and
loses like the Ottoman Empire did and
these other nations decide to give the
Eskimos a tiny piece of land from that
defeated empire and the Eskimos take
that tiny piece of land and turn it into
a powerful icy
metropolis. Would I support the right of
these Eskimos to exist and to defend
themselves in their little Eskimo state?
Yes. Yes, I would. Fortunately, Eskimos
aren't in that situation, but Jews are.
So, I support their right to live in a
state where they can defend themselves.
And that makes me a Zionist, just like
Sam Harris. Now, Sam and I and many
others agree that we should support
Israel's right to exist. But there are
other ways we can support people in
Israel, especially when there are
politicians and journalists and
educators and entertainers who are
waging an economic war against Israel.
Tens of thousands of small businesses
have closed in Israel since the October
7th attack. But we can all chip in to
help. That's why I've partnered with
Artzabox, a company that gathers items
from artisans in Jerusalem and Nazareth
and Bethlehem and other locations and
ships them to you in a box. Every Artza
box connects you with the Bible. Sam
Harris can cry about that. And is filled
with items that will bless your home.
You get candles, Israeli spice mixes,
olive wood carvings, mosaic art,
decorations, cosmetics, candy, games,
all kinds of things. And by signing up,
you'll be supporting the local Christian
and Jewish families and businesses and
charities that create them. Artza boxes
are fun to open with your family and
they make great gifts. So, sign up to
get your first Artza box. The link is in
the description. Use the promo code
dizzle to get a discount and to let them
know who sent you.
[Music]